Draft section page documentation (#813)
grafana/writers-toolkit: docs/sources/structure/topic-types/section/index.md

---
date: 2024-08-22
description: Learn how to write a section page.
keywords:
  - section
  - topic types
  - template
menuTitle: Section
review_date: 2024-08-22
title: Section page
---

# Section page

Section pages, also called landing pages, direct users to the most valuable resources contained within the section.

## Section structure

A _section_ page includes the following elements:

- **Hero:** A banner across the top of the page that includes the section title and a brief description.
- **Overview:** A heading and one or two paragraphs that describe the resources contained within the section.
- **Explore:** A heading that contains cards.
  - **Cards:** Defined in the front matter, cards provide overviews of important pages and include links to those pages.

## Write a section page

To write a section, follow these steps:

> 1. Determine where you want to add section, or find an existing section page to update.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Determine where you want to add the section, or find an existing section page to update.
```

> 1. If you are creating a new section, create directory that follows this naming convention:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. If you are creating a new section, create a directory that follows this naming convention:
```

   - The directory name matches the menu title planned for the section.
   - Use lowercase letters.
   - Add a hyphen between words.

1. Create an `_index.md` file within the section directory.
1. Add the usual front matter to the index file.

   For more information about front matter, refer to [Front matter](https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/write/front-matter/).

> 1. Add the section page specific elements.

Reviewer: Writing this properly entails a lot of hyphenation, so let's recast.
```suggestion
1. Add the elements specific to a section page:
```

>    1. Add the hero.
> 
>       A hero requires front matter and use of a shortcode.
>       For more information, refer to [Hero (simple)](https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/write/shortcodes/#hero-simple).
> 
>    1. Add the cards.
> 
>       Cards require front matter and use of a shortcode.
>       For more information, refer to [Card grid](https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/write/shortcodes/#card-grid).

Reviewer: Based on the way you've led into this section, I think this can just be a bullet list that's much shorter (you might have to do some reformatting in your IDE). 

```suggestion

   -  **Hero:** A [hero (simple)](https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/write/shortcodes/#hero-simple) requires front matter and use of a shortcode.
  -  **Cards:** A [card grid](https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/write/shortcodes/#card-grid) requires front matter and use of a shortcode.
```

### Section page examples

Refer to the following pages for section page examples:

> - [Grafana Explore](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/explore/): a section page without an image in the hero.
> - [Alerts and IRM](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana-cloud/alerting-and-irm/): a section page with an image in the hero.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Grafana Explore](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/explore/): A section page without an image in the hero.
- [Alerts and IRM](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana-cloud/alerting-and-irm/): A section page with an image in the hero.
```

## Section template

> When you are ready to write, make a copy of the [Section template](https://github.com/grafana/writers-toolkit/blob/main/docs/static/templates/section-template.md) and add your content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you're ready to write, make a copy of the [Section template](https://github.com/grafana/writers-toolkit/blob/main/docs/static/templates/section-template.md) and add your content.
```
